docs(api): improve autocommand docs [skip ci] (#17545)
neovim/neovim: runtime/doc/api.txt

                    Integer The id of the created augroup.

                See also: ~
                    autocmd-groups

nvim_create_autocmd({*opts})                           *nvim_create_autocmd()*
                Define a new autocommand, See |autocmd|.

                Example: >
                    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({
                      event = {"BufEnter", "BufWinEnter"},
                      pattern = {"*.c", "*.h"},
                      callback = function() print("This buffer enters") end, 
                      once = false,
                    })
<

                Example values for patterns: >
                  pattern = "*.py,*.pyi"
                  pattern = "*.py"
                  pattern = {"*.py"}
                  pattern = { "*.py", "*.pyi" }
                  -- NOT supported
                  pattern = {"*.py,*.pyi"}
<

                Examples values for events: >
                  event = "FileType,CursorHold"
                  event = "BufPreWrite"
                  event = {"BufPostWrite"}
                  event = {"CursorHold", "BufPreWrite", "BufPostWrite"}
<

                NOTE: Requires one of pattern or buffer, requires one of

>                 callback or command,

Reviewer: Hmm, that belongs to the parameters list, and isn't fully reflected there. I'll have to think how to best fold that in.

                              |autocmd-groups|.
                            • event: (string|array) required, event or events
                              to match against. See |autocmd-events|.
                            • pattern: (string|array) optional, pattern or
                              patterns to match against. See
                              |autocmd-pattern|.
                            • buffer: (integer) optional, buffer number for
                              buffer local autocmds (can't be used together
                              with pattern). See |autocmd-buflocal|.
                            • desc: (string) optional, description of the
                              autocmd.
                            • callback: (function|string) optional, Lua
                              function or Vim function (as string) to execute
                              on event.
                            • command (string) optional, vimscript command to
                              execute on event (can't be used together with
                              callback). Eg. opts.command = "let g:value_set =

>                               v:true"

Reviewer: I think the example can be omitted here; I'd rather have a further examples block for `command` and `callback` at the top.

Reviewer: Especially since the presence of both `command` and `callback` may lead to confusion, so a clear explanation of the distinction would be very helpful.

Author: Just added a better example at the start.

Reviewer: Yes, that's very good!

                            • once (boolean) optional, defaults to false. Run
                              the autocmd only once. See |autocmd-once|.

>                             • nested: (boolean) If true, execute nested

Reviewer: Also optional, defaults to false? "If true" can be omitted; use same phrasing as for `once`.

                augroup, autocmds contained by this augroup will also be
                deleted and cleared. This augroup will no longer exist

                Parameters: ~
                    {id}  Integer The id returned by nvim_create_augroup.

                See also: ~
                    nvim_del_augroup_by_name
                    nvim_create_augroup

nvim_del_augroup_by_name({name})                  *nvim_del_augroup_by_name()*
                Delete an autocommand group by name.

                NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting an
                augroup, autocmds contained by this augroup will also be
                deleted and cleared. This augroup will no longer exist.

                See also: ~
                    autocommand-groups

nvim_del_autocmd({id})                                    *nvim_del_autocmd()*
                Delete an autocommand by id.

                Parameters: ~
                    {id}  Integer The id returned by nvim_create_autocmd

                See also: ~
                    nvim_create_augroup
                    nvim_del_augroup_by_name

> nvim_do_autocmd({*opts})                                   *nvim_do_autocmd()*

Reviewer: What does `*` mean here? That `{opts}` can be omitted? What happens then?

Reviewer 2: I think this means it is a pointer.

                Execute an autocommand |autocmd-execute|.

                Parameters: ~
                    {opts}  Dictionary of Autocommand options.

>                             • event: (string|array) event or events to match

Reviewer: required?

                              against. See |autocmd-events|.
                            • group: (string) group name. See
                              |autocmd-groups|.
                            • pattern: (string|array) optional, defaults to
                              "*". See |autocmd-pattern|.
                            • buffer: (integer) buffer number, can't be used
                              together with pattern. See |autocmd-buflocal|.
                            • modeline: (bool) optional, defaults to true.
                              Whether to process the modeline. See
                              |<nomodeline>|.

                See also: ~
                    :doautocmd
                    autocmd-execute

nvim_get_autocmds({*opts})                               *nvim_get_autocmds()*
                Get autocmds that match the requirements passed to {opts}.

                This examples will get autocommands matching ALL the given
                criteria: >

>                   -- Matches all criteria (AND style)

Reviewer: what does "style" mean here?

Author: Yeah confusing, just removed it.

                NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting an
                augroup, autocmds contained by this augroup will also be
                deleted and cleared. This augroup will no longer exist

                Parameters: ~
                    {id}  Integer The id returned by nvim_create_augroup.

                See also: ~
                    |nvim_del_augroup_by_name()|
                    |nvim_create_augroup()|

nvim_del_augroup_by_name({name})                  *nvim_del_augroup_by_name()*
                Delete an autocommand group by name.

                NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting an
                augroup, autocmds contained by this augroup will also be
                deleted and cleared. This augroup will no longer exist.

                See also: ~
                    |autocommand-groups|

nvim_del_autocmd({id})                                    *nvim_del_autocmd()*
                Delete an autocommand by id.

                Parameters: ~
                    {id}  Integer The id returned by nvim_create_autocmd

                See also: ~
                    |nvim_create_autocmd()|

> nvim_do_autocmd({*opts})                                   *nvim_do_autocmd()*

Reviewer 3: Why did we introduce a new API verb "do" instead of using an existing verb like "exec"? Leaking the internal API just perpetuates the awkwardness of the internal API forever.

Author: We can still change it before release, I also found exec reading better that's why I describe it like that.

                    {value}    Variable value

==============================================================================
Autocmd Functions                                                *api-autocmd*

nvim_create_augroup({*opts})                           *nvim_create_augroup()*
                Create or get an autocommand group. See |autocmd-groups|.

                To get an existing augroup id, do: >
                    local id = vim.api.nvim_create_augroup({
                      name = "MyGroup",
                      clear = false
                    });
<

                Parameters: ~
                    {opts}  Dictionary Parameters
                            • name: (string) The name of the augroup

>                             • clear: (bool), defaults to true. Whether to
>                               clear existing command or not for the group (if
>                               it exists). See |autocmd-groups|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                            • clear: (bool), defaults to true. Clear existing commands for the 
                               group if it exists. See |autocmd-groups|.
```

                autocommands).

                Example using callback: >
                    -- Lua function
                    local myluafun = function() print("This buffer enters") end

                    -- Vimscript function name (as a string)
                    local myvimfun = "g:MyVimFunction"

                    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({
                      event = {"BufEnter", "BufWinEnter"},
                      pattern = {"*.c", "*.h"},
                      callback = myluafun,  -- Or myvimfun
                    })
<

                Example using command: >
                    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({
                      event = {"BufEnter", "BufWinEnter"},
                      pattern = {"*.c", "*.h"},
                      command = "echo 'Entering a C or C++ file'",
                    })
<

                Example values for patterns: >
                  pattern = "*.py,*.pyi"
                  pattern = "*.py"
                  pattern = {"*.py"}
                  pattern = { "*.py", "*.pyi" }
                  -- NOT supported
                  pattern = {"*.py,*.pyi"}
<

                Examples values for events: >

>                   event = "FileType,CursorHold"

Reviewer: That doesn't work, so I would suggest removing it.

                  event = "BufPreWrite"

>                   event = {"BufPostWrite"}

Reviewer: I would remove that example, too -- basically, just show "string for single event, table for multiple events" (and the leave trivial corollary "one is a special case of multiple" as an exercise to the reader).

                            • buffer: (integer) optional, buffer number for
                              buffer local autocmds (can't be used together
                              with pattern) |autocmd-buflocal|.
                            • desc: (string) optional, description of the
                              autocmd.
                            • callback: (function|string) optional, Lua
                              function or Vim function (as string) to execute
                              on event.
                            • command (string) optional, Vim command to
                              execute on event (can't be used together with
                              callback).
                            • once (boolean) optional, defaults to false. Run
                              the autocmd only once |autocmd-once|.
                            • nested: (boolean) optional, defaults to false.
                              Run nested autocmds |autocmd-nested|.

                Return: ~
                    The id of the created autocommand.

                See also: ~
                    autocmd

>                     nvim_del_autocmd()

Reviewer 4: It looks like the `@see` links are not automatically made into links, so all of the `@see foo` lines in the docstrings should be changed to `@see |foo|`.

Author: Done

                    -- Lua function
                    local myluafun = function() print("This buffer enters") end

                    -- Vimscript function name (as a string)
                    local myvimfun = "g:MyVimFunction"

                    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({
                      event = {"BufEnter", "BufWinEnter"},
                      pattern = {"*.c", "*.h"},
                      callback = myluafun,  -- Or myvimfun
                    })
<

                Example using command: >
                    vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({
                      event = {"BufEnter", "BufWinEnter"},
                      pattern = {"*.c", "*.h"},
                      command = "echo 'Entering a C or C++ file'",
                    })
<

                Example values for pattern: >
                  pattern = "*.py"
                  pattern = { "*.py", "*.pyi" }
<

                Examples values for event: >
                  event = "BufPreWrite"
                  event = {"CursorHold", "BufPreWrite", "BufPostWrite"}
<

                Parameters: ~
                    {event}  (String|Array) The event or events to register

>                              this autocmd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                             this autocommand
```
(and similar for the `{opts}` description).

Big 👍🏻 on standardizing these, and opting for the full term!

                    {opts}   Dictionary of autocommand options:
                             • group (string|integer) optional: the autocmd
                               group name or id to match against.
                             • pattern (string|array) optional: pattern or
                               patterns to match against |autocmd-pattern|.
                             • buffer (integer) optional: buffer number for
                               buffer local autocmds |autocmd-buflocal|.
                               Cannot be used with {pattern}.
                             • desc (string) optional: description of the
                               autocmd.
                             • callback (function|string) optional: Lua
                               function or Vim function (as string) to execute
                               on event. Cannot be used with {command}
                             • command (string) optional: Vim command to

>                                execute on event Cannot be used with {callback}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                               execute on event. Cannot be used with {callback}
```

                             • once (boolean) optional: defaults to false. Run
                               the autocmd only once |autocmd-once|.
                             • nested (boolean) optional: defaults to false.
                               Run nested autocmds |autocmd-nested|.

                Return: ~
                    Integer id of the created autocommand.

                See also: ~
                    |autocmd|
                    |nvim_del_autocmd()|

nvim_del_augroup_by_id({id})                        *nvim_del_augroup_by_id()*
                Delete an autocommand group by id.

                To get a group id one can use |nvim_get_autocmds()|.

>                 NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting an
>                 augroup, autocmds contained by this augroup will also be
>                 deleted and cleared. This augroup will no longer exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting a
                group, autocommands contained in this group will also be
                deleted and cleared. This group will no longer exist.
```

                Parameters: ~
                    {id}  Integer The id of the augroup.

                See also: ~
                    |nvim_del_augroup_by_name()|
                    |nvim_create_augroup()|

nvim_del_augroup_by_name({name})                  *nvim_del_augroup_by_name()*
                Delete an autocommand group by name.

>                 NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting an
>                 augroup, autocmds contained by this augroup will also be
>                 deleted and cleared. This augroup will no longer exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                NOTE: behavior differs from |augroup-delete|. When deleting a
                group, autocommands contained in this group will also be
                deleted and cleared. This group will no longer exist.
```

                Parameters: ~
                    {name}  String The name of the augroup.

                See also: ~
                    |autocommand-groups|

nvim_del_autocmd({id})                                    *nvim_del_autocmd()*
                Delete an autocommand by id.

                NOTE: Only autocommands created via the API have an id.

                Parameters: ~
                    {id}  Integer The id returned by nvim_create_autocmd

                See also: ~
                    |nvim_create_autocmd()|

nvim_do_autocmd({event}, {*opts})                          *nvim_do_autocmd()*
                Execute an autocommand |autocmd-execute|.

                Parameters: ~
                    {event}  (String|Array) The event or events to execute
                    {opts}   Dictionary of autocommand options:
                             • group (string|integer) optional: the autocmd
                               group name or id to match against.
                               |autocmd-groups|.
                             • pattern (string|array) optional: defaults to

>                                "*" |autocmd-pattern|.Cannot be used with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                               "*" |autocmd-pattern|. Cannot be used with
```

>                                {buffer}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                               {buffer}.
```

                             • buffer (integer) optional: buffer number
                               |autocmd-buflocal|. Cannot be used with
                               {pattern}.
                             • modeline (bool) optional: defaults to true.
                               Process the modeline after the autocommands
                               |<nomodeline>|.

                See also: ~
                    |:doautocmd|

nvim_get_autocmds({*opts})                               *nvim_get_autocmds()*

>                 Get autocmds that match the requirements passed to {opts}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                Get autocommands that match the requirements passed to {opts}.
```

                These examples will get autocommands matching ALL the given
                criteria: >
                  -- Matches all criteria
                  autocommands = vim.api.nvim_get_autocmds({
                    group = "MyGroup",
                    event = {"BufEnter", "BufWinEnter"},
                    pattern = {"*.c", "*.h"}
                  })

                  -- All commands from one group
                  autocommands = vim.api.nvim_get_autocmds({
                    group = "MyGroup",
                  })
<

>                 NOTE: When multiple patterns or events are provided, if finds
>                 all autocommand that matches any combination of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                NOTE: When multiple patterns or events are provided, will find
                all autocommand that matches any combination of them.
```
